Next will be the wireless network security.
Wireless networks are used to connect the
computers to each other without any cables.
They have become popular due to the ease of
installation and the increasing
popularity of laptop computers.
Restaurants, hotels, business centers, apartment
complexes, and individuals often provide wireless
access with little or no protection. The
network is referred to as a "service set
identifier". All devices on the network must use
the same SSID to communicate with each other.
The major advantage of wireless
networks is user mobility,
that is within the range of a particular network.
A network has sufficient bandwidth to enable
a wide range of applications and services such
as police radios, palm pilots, and cell phones.
The main concern has to do with the mobility of
users who expect flawless reception between access
points. It is not necessary to re-log in and
restore network applications. A wireless exchange
is possible only if the access points exchange
data with every transfer of one user to another.
Wireless networks provide the freedom to roam with
uninterrupted connectivity. Now, we're going to
talk about the network security threats.
First on the list is Malware.
Email, instant messaging, and file sharing
programs have traditionally been used to
spread viruses, worms, back doors, root kits,
trojans, and spyware from computer to computer.
Sniffing
Wi-fi access points can be used
by hackers to set up packet sniffers to monitor
all traffic that comes and goes in a network.
Denial of Service
It leads the computer to crash or to become so
busy in processing data that it cannot be used.
Mobile Code
either Java, Javascript and ActiveX, intruders use
a mobile code to gather information from websites
visited or to run malicious code in the computer.
Email Spoofing
An email message that appears to have
originated from one source when it was
really sent from another to trick the
user in providing sensitive information.
Chat clients allow the exchange of
executable code that may be malicious.
Being an intermediary for another attack
Intruders use compromised computers for
attacking other systems. Backdoor
and remote administration programs
BackOrifice, NetBus and SubSeven
are the tools commonly used by intruders to
attack windows computer. Cross-site scripting
It is when a malicious web developer may
attach a script to something sent to a website
such as a URL that is transferred to your
browser when the website responds to you.
Unprotected windows shares can be exploited by
intruders to place distributed attack tools for
windows based computers attached to the
internet. Securing Network Connections
To secure network connections, first,
use a firewall. A firewall is a part
of a computer system or network that is
designed to block unauthorized access.
It controls traffic coming into and leaving the
system by permitting authorized communications.
Examples of software firewalls are Windows
Firewall, Norton personal firewall, McAfee
personal firewall, Subeit personal firewall,
ZoneAlarm and Comodo personal firewall. Next
is to use an antivirus protection.
An antivirus is a software used to
detect viruses and protect the system from
threats. It should be used at the server.
Viruses can be detected using specific or generic
methods. Specific methods look for the exact virus
while the generic look for virus-like
performance and may cause false alarms.
Anti-virus should be configured to scan all
workstations; the complete network at regular
intervals; all incoming and outgoing traffic;
email attachments, downloads, and browsing.
Here are some examples of antivirus
software. First is AVG antivirus
which is a product by the Grisoft company.
It can be downloaded from www.grisoft.com,
and like any other antivirus software, it detects
and removes viruses from the system. Norton
Norton antivirus is a product of Symantec
corporation. It can be downloaded from
www.symantec.com and it can detect and remove
viruses and other malicious codes from the system.
Kaspersky
Kaspersky antivirus provides a
user with traditional anti-virus protection based
on the latest protection technologies. The user
can work, communicate, surf the internet, and play
online games on the computer safely and easily.
Next tip would be to use strong passwords.
Password is the first line of defense and
the user should ensure that the passwords
selected for all user accounts are strong,
and while creating a password, the user should
remember that the password should be: first,
easy to remember. The password must be something
that the user can remember, but not related to the
user. It should not contain any bank information.
Next a password should contain long and multiple
symbols. A strong password is 8 to 10 digits
long with letters numbers and special characters.
Passwords should also be frequently changing.
Create the schedule to change the password
periodically, and use strong encryption algorithms
to encrypt the password storage files such as
a security account manager, and passwd.conf
file. Next is password should withstand filters
and resist crackers. Use a filter that operates
in real time, and reinforces some level
of length and complexity on passwords.
Next step for securing network connections
should be: make regular backups. Regular backups
help to avoid the loss of critical data or files
which can be accidentally deleted or corrupted.
It helps to restore data during security issues.
The main reasons to backup data include
restoring the critical data after data loss,
and restoring files when they are
accidentally deleted or corrupted.
Know about encryption
Encryption or the conversion of data
into a unreadable form called ciphertext.
Unencrypted data is called a plain text.
Encryption protects sensitive
information that is transmitted online.
It camouflages the data within a file or message
so that unauthorized users cannot use it.
There are two types of encryption:
asymmetric encryption wherein the user
uses two keys - one key for encryption
and the other key is for decryption.
Next would be the symmetric encryption which
uses one key for both encryption and decryption.
To summarize the whole lesson, first,
a firewall is part of a computer system or network
that is designed to block unauthorized access.
The router acts as a shield to the
network and manages all communications.
Wireless networks are used to connect the
computers to each other without any cables.
Eavesdropping, data interception,
and modification, denial of service,
spoofing, freeloading, and rogue WLANs are
the common threads to the wireless network.
Sniffing, malware, email spoofing, chat
clients, cross-site scripting, unprotected
windows shares, and mobile code on some of the
network security threats. Lastly, secure network
connections using firewall anti-virus using strong
passwords regular backups encryption, and so on.